README.md, before:

# The Music of Rita Jessa | Michael Angelo Pineda

## Code Institute - Milestone Project 1

### HTML/CSS Essentials - User Centric, Static Front-End Website

[View the live project here.](https://codeinstitute.net)

## Purpose

This is a static (frontend only) website for Rita Jessa Carreon who wishes to start her music career and have a venue where she can showcase her songs, have her fans view her latest music videos and get updated with her latest events.

The main goal of this site is primarily for the artist’s fan to enjoy different media (music, videos, and photos) of the artist and appeal to new visitors/ users/potential fan to captivate and keep them engaged with the artist’s music and return back to the site. Also, this site shall act as platform for the artist to establish an online presence, as she will be new to the industry and wishes to gain more fans.

The target audience for this site is anyone who is interested in gospel music regardless of age, sex or background, or essentially anyone who loves music in general.


<h2 align="center"><img src="https://i.ibb.co/TYvTXz1/Example-CI.png"></h2>----> mock up

## A. User Experience (UX)

-   ### 1. User stories

    -   #### a. Artist's Fan Visitor Goals

        1.	As a music lover, I want to be able to see a list of songs and albums of the singer so that I can browse and play the music.
        2.	As an artist’s fan, I want to watch latest videos of the artists o that I can enjoy her music more.
        3.	As an artist’s fan, I want to Know all the upcoming events where she will be performing so I can go there and support her.
        4.	As an artist’s fan, I want to know about her background and history so that I will know more about her and how she became she is.
        5.	As an artist’s fan, I want to see different photos of the singer so that I can appreciate how she looks in a creative way.
        6.	As an artist’s fan, I want to Be able to contact her for possible events/booking so that She can perform if I will have an event/ gathering.
        7.	As an artist’s fan, I want to get notifications re: events/ new releases so that I get to be updated.
        8.	As an artist’s fan, I want to Know her social media links so that I get to know how many people follow them and how trustworthy they can be.
        9.	As an artist’s fan, I want to buy merchandise, limited memorabilia, album so that I can add it into my collection.

    -   #### b. Potential Fan Visitor Goals

        1.	As potential fan, I want to a straightforward layout of the site, so that it will be very easy to navigate it.
        2.	As potential fan, I want to view her site to be simple so that I can browse it with ease.
        3.	As potential fan, I want to be able to contact someone immediately if I need to so that it will save me the hassle of waiting for a long response.

    -   #### c. Site Owner Goals

        1.	As the artist, I want to create a website so that I can increase my fan base, showcase my talent and establish an online presence.
        2.	As the artist, I want to share a short bio about me in my homepage so that people who don’t know me can immediately know the kind of singer I am.
        3.	As the artist, I want to showcase photos one at a time so that my fans can get excited and anticipate what to see next.
        4.	As the artist, I want to clients or fans to be able to contact me and my team so that I can land more gigs and events.
        5.	As the artist, I want my site to inspire people so that my purpose in singing and sharing my talent will be fulfilled.
        6.	As the artist, I want to make my site a reflection of who I am as an artist- optimistic, reflective and spiritual so that more fans will fall in love with my music.
        7.	As music production company, I want to increase the number of people who will be revisiting the site so that to maintain artist’s social currency.


-   ### 2. Design and Typography

    Overall, the design is simple and clean. The design was based from the artist’s personality and purpose of singing. She wants her website to speak about who she is.

    -   #### a. Colour Scheme

        As per the artist’s description of herself, she is an open, optimistic and approachable and her main purpose in singing is to inspire people. Her genre of music is gospel, which has a soothing and calming effect that affects the brain positively, can elevate your mood, and the lyrics have a way of elevating your spirituality to the next level and helps with your stress level according to [therelativegospel.com](https://tinyurl.com/fhsxnsra). Because of these reasons, we opted to use teal.

        According to [colorpsychology.org](https://tinyurl.com/aahy3z4w), teal (#008080) blends blue’s tranquil stability with green’s optimism and healing properties. Teal is the colour of restfulness and mental and spiritual balance. The calm shade has a natural dignity that is not contrived or “in your face.” Teal’s understated elegance encourages a calm, reflective mood.

        In addition to teal, I used [mycolor.space](https://mycolor.space/?hex=%23008080&sub=1) to find complementary colours for teal that would maintain overall aesthetic and feel of teal. The colours are listed below:

           -  #008080-teal, RGB value is (0,128,128) blue green  
           -  #00C9CD- RGB value is (0,201,205) mainly blue  
           -  #E6F4F1- RGB value is (230,244,241) Mainly green  
           -  #FF8749-RGB value is (255,135,73), mainly red but appears orange  

        However, we opted to adjust the colours to complement the overall layout and feel of the site and used the following colours instead: 

           -  #008080- solid teal  
           -  #00C9CD- light blue green  
           -  #dde9e6-pale blue green  
           -  #ff8649- pale orange  

        The font colours, which provide contrast to the background, are as follow:

           -  #008080- solid teal   
           -  #E6F4F1- light teal  
           -  #FF8749- solid orange  
           -  #ffffff- white   
                
    -   #### b. Typography
  
        The fonts used are [Poppins](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Poppins?category=Sans+Serif&preview.text=MY%20MUSIC%20l%20MY%20VIDEO%20l%20MY%20PHOTOS&preview.text_type=custom&preview.size=29&sort=popularity&preview.layout=row#standard-styles) for headings and [Roboto](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Roboto?category=Sans+Serif&preview.text=MY%20MUSIC%20l%20MY%20VIDEO%20l%20MY%20PHOTOS&preview.text_type=custom&preview.size=29&sort=popularity&preview.layout=row&query=robot) for all written content with Sans Serif as the fallback font in case for any reason the font isn't being imported into the site correctly.

        Poppins and Roboto are clean fonts used frequently in programming, so it is both attractive and appropriate.

    -   #### c. Imagery
        
        The images used in the site are provided by the artist and her photographer. 
        
        The background-image, which is a white-gray marble tile, was taken from [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/) and gives a simple and fresh look together with the adjusted background-colors of each sections. 
        
        The hero-image was edited in [Adobe Spark](https://spark.adobe.com/sp/design/post/urn:aaid:sc:AP:fdef19ec-0d82-4ef5-9522-01c05cf49f31?_branch_match_id=922094833261166892) and was designed to give pique the interest of the viewers and catch their attention with its very simple yet effective design.

        Lastly, the sizes of the images were adjusted to ensure balance with the other elements.

    -   #### d. Media (Recordings and video)

        The recordings were provided by the artist. These are gospels songs which reflect the kind of music she wants to do.

        On the other hand, the size music video in the My New Release of Home Page was adjusted to ensure balance with the other elements.
        
        Users has the option to click the play button of the audio and video element should they want to view the video.

-   ### 3. Wireframes

    #### a. Desktop

    -   [Home](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/desktop-home.png)
    -   [Bio](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/desktop-bio.png)
    -   [Contact](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/desktop-contact.png)

    #### b. Tablet

    -   [Home](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/tablet-home.png)
    -   [Bio](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/tablet-bio.png)
    -   [Contact](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/tablet-contact.png)

    #### c. Mobile
    
    -   [Home](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/mobile-home.png)
    -   [Bio](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/mobile-bio.png)
    -   [Contact](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/mobile-contact.png)

- ## B. Features

- ### Across all Pages

    -   The site has a responsive design on all devices. 

- #### Header

    -   The header is fixed at the top. This is accomplished using bootstrap’s sticky-top class.
    -   The artist’s name is placed on the top left corner of the page. The name shrinks on mobile device to avoid overcrowding of the area and give a breathing space.
    -   The navigation bar’s links are visible and turns white when hovered over to give feedback to user.  On tablet and mobile view, the links will collapse to a toggle button for better user experience. An opaque overlay was added to the collapsed menu to give give distinction to its content against the header and collapses back to a toggle button once user clicked the preferred page.

- ### Footer

    -   The footer sits after the content of the last section at the bottom of all pages , and includes a simple modal with the user’s email address and a subscribe button for newsletter for user's to get latest updates about the artist
    -   It also contains icons for the artist’s social media links for fans to see their social media following. Artist's social media links are not yet linked but the icons open to a new window when clicked. 
    -   The footer will collapse into two sections in mobile view- modal atop social's link and will sit next to each other on tablet view.

- ### Home Page

    -   The hero image is responsive to all devices.
    -   The Home page has a section for the artist’s album and tracks, on which user can play and listen to them if they wish to Also the title of the song becomes bold when hovered on.
    -   It also contains the section of My New Release, where the artist’s most recent music video can be found. The users can have the option to click the play button if they want to watch clip to minimise distractions when viewing the page.
    -   The Upcoming Events section has an inherit effect from bootstrap on which when an event is hovered on, the entire row is highlighted.

- ### Bio Page

    -   This page displays the artist’s several photos using carousel effect which will allow users to view the artist’s images in a more fun way that will keep then engaged as it is interactive.

- ### Contact Page

    -   This page contains a modal for inquiries and bookings so that users can get in touch with the artist management. It was designed simple and very straightforward.

- ## C. Future Features

    -   I would like to add a feature to the upcoming events on which user can buy tickets through the website.   
    -   I would like to add a merchandise page on which user can buy memorabilia and album.   
    -   I would like my “Subscribe to my Newsletter” and “For Booking/ Inquiries” modal to be fully functional as it requires Backend Developement.   
    -   I would like to improve the music playlist using Javascript as it very dull and unenticing.   
    -   I would like to add more photos, videos and music content in the future and have a dedicated Page for each.   
    -   I would like amend the design and layout depending on the reception and feedback of users.   

- ## D. Technologies Used

    - ### 1. Languages Used

        -   [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)  
        -   [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)  

    - ### 2. Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

    1. [Bootstrap:](https://getbootstrap.com/)
        - Bootstrap was used to assist with the responsiveness and styling of the website.
    1. [Google Fonts:](https://fonts.google.com/)
        - Google fonts were used to import the **Poppins** and **Roboto** font into the style.css file which is used on all pages throughout the project.
    1. [Font Awesome:](https://fontawesome.com/)
        - Font Awesome was used on all pages throughout the website to add icons for aesthetic and UX purposes.
    1. [jQuery:](https://jquery.com/)
        - jQuery came with Bootstrap to make the navbar responsive but was also used for the smooth scroll function in JavaScript.
    1. [Git:](https://git-scm.com/)
        - Git was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.
    1. [GitHub:](https://github.com/)
        - GitHub is used to store the projects code after being pushed from Git.
    1. [Adobe Spark:](https://spark.adobe.com/sp/design/post/urn:aaid:sc:AP:fdef19ec-0d82-4ef5-9522-01c05cf49f31?_branch_match_id=922094833261166892)
        - Photoshop was used to create the logo, resizing images and editing photos for the website.
    1. [Balsamiq:](https://balsamiq.com/)
        - Balsamiq was used to create the [wireframes](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/tree/master/assets/wireframes) during the design process.

Commit message:

Run the site thru Lighthouse and reupload compressed files

README.md, after:

# The Music of Rita Jessa | Michael Angelo Pineda

## Code Institute - Milestone Project 1

### HTML/CSS Essentials - User Centric, Static Front-End Website

[View the live project here.](https://codeinstitute.net)

## Purpose

This is a static (frontend only) website for Rita Jessa Carreon who wishes to start her music career and have a venue where she can showcase her songs, have her fans view her latest music videos and get updated with her latest events.

The main goal of this site is primarily for the artist’s fan to enjoy different media (music, videos, and photos) of the artist and appeal to new visitors/ users/potential fan to captivate and keep them engaged with the artist’s music and return back to the site. Also, this site shall act as platform for the artist to establish an online presence, as she will be new to the industry and wishes to gain more fans.

The target audience for this site is anyone who is interested in gospel music regardless of age, sex or background, or essentially anyone who loves music in general.


<h2 align="center"><img src="https://i.ibb.co/TYvTXz1/Example-CI.png"></h2>----> mock up

## A. User Experience (UX)

-   ### 1. User stories

    -   #### a. Artist's Fan Visitor Goals

        1.	As a music lover, I want to be able to see a list of songs and albums of the singer so that I can browse and play the music.
        2.	As an artist’s fan, I want to watch latest videos of the artists o that I can enjoy her music more.
        3.	As an artist’s fan, I want to Know all the upcoming events where she will be performing so I can go there and support her.
        4.	As an artist’s fan, I want to know about her background and history so that I will know more about her and how she became she is.
        5.	As an artist’s fan, I want to see different photos of the singer so that I can appreciate how she looks in a creative way.
        6.	As an artist’s fan, I want to Be able to contact her for possible events/booking so that She can perform if I will have an event/ gathering.
        7.	As an artist’s fan, I want to get notifications re: events/ new releases so that I get to be updated.
        8.	As an artist’s fan, I want to Know her social media links so that I get to know how many people follow them and how trustworthy they can be.
        9.	As an artist’s fan, I want to buy merchandise, limited memorabilia, album so that I can add it into my collection.

    -   #### b. Potential Fan Visitor Goals

        1.	As potential fan, I want to a straightforward layout of the site, so that it will be very easy to navigate it.
        2.	As potential fan, I want to view her site to be simple so that I can browse it with ease.
        3.	As potential fan, I want to be able to contact someone immediately if I need to so that it will save me the hassle of waiting for a long response.

    -   #### c. Site Owner Goals

        1.	As the artist, I want to create a website so that I can increase my fan base, showcase my talent and establish an online presence.
        2.	As the artist, I want to share a short bio about me in my homepage so that people who don’t know me can immediately know the kind of singer I am.
        3.	As the artist, I want to showcase photos one at a time so that my fans can get excited and anticipate what to see next.
        4.	As the artist, I want to clients or fans to be able to contact me and my team so that I can land more gigs and events.
        5.	As the artist, I want my site to inspire people so that my purpose in singing and sharing my talent will be fulfilled.
        6.	As the artist, I want to make my site a reflection of who I am as an artist- optimistic, reflective and spiritual so that more fans will fall in love with my music.
        7.	As music production company, I want to increase the number of people who will be revisiting the site so that to maintain artist’s social currency.


-   ### 2. Design and Typography

    Overall, the design is simple and clean. The design was based from the artist’s personality and purpose of singing. She wants her website to speak about who she is.

    -   #### a. Colour Scheme

        As per the artist’s description of herself, she is an open, optimistic and approachable and her main purpose in singing is to inspire people. Her genre of music is gospel, which has a soothing and calming effect that affects the brain positively, can elevate your mood, and the lyrics have a way of elevating your spirituality to the next level and helps with your stress level according to [therelativegospel.com](https://tinyurl.com/fhsxnsra). Because of these reasons, we opted to use teal.

        According to [colorpsychology.org](https://tinyurl.com/aahy3z4w), teal (#008080) blends blue’s tranquil stability with green’s optimism and healing properties. Teal is the colour of restfulness and mental and spiritual balance. The calm shade has a natural dignity that is not contrived or “in your face.” Teal’s understated elegance encourages a calm, reflective mood.

        In addition to teal, I used [mycolor.space](https://mycolor.space/?hex=%23008080&sub=1) to find complementary colours for teal that would maintain overall aesthetic and feel of teal. The colours are listed below:

           -  #008080-teal, RGB value is (0,128,128) blue green  
           -  #00C9CD- RGB value is (0,201,205) mainly blue  
           -  #E6F4F1- RGB value is (230,244,241) Mainly green  
           -  #FF8749-RGB value is (255,135,73), mainly red but appears orange  

        However, we opted to adjust the colours to complement the overall layout and feel of the site and used the following colours instead: 

           -  #008080- solid teal  
           -  #00C9CD- light blue green  
           -  #dde9e6-pale blue green  
           -  #ff8649- pale orange  

        The font colours, which provide contrast to the background, are as follow:

           -  #008080- solid teal **changed to #006363 for better visibility after Lighthouse Testing **   
           -  #E6F4F1- light teal  
           -  #FF8749- solid orange  
           -  #ffffff- white   
                
    -   #### b. Typography
  
        The fonts used are [Poppins](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Poppins?category=Sans+Serif&preview.text=MY%20MUSIC%20l%20MY%20VIDEO%20l%20MY%20PHOTOS&preview.text_type=custom&preview.size=29&sort=popularity&preview.layout=row#standard-styles) for headings and [Roboto](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Roboto?category=Sans+Serif&preview.text=MY%20MUSIC%20l%20MY%20VIDEO%20l%20MY%20PHOTOS&preview.text_type=custom&preview.size=29&sort=popularity&preview.layout=row&query=robot) for all written content with Sans Serif as the fallback font in case for any reason the font isn't being imported into the site correctly.

        Poppins and Roboto are clean fonts used frequently in programming, so it is both attractive and appropriate.

    -   #### c. Imagery
        
        The images used in the site are provided by the artist and her photographer. 
        
        The background-image, which is a white-gray marble tile, was taken from [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/photo/marble-surface-2341290/) and gives a simple and fresh look together with the adjusted background-colors of each sections. 
        
        The hero-image was edited in [Adobe Spark](https://spark.adobe.com/sp/design/post/urn:aaid:sc:AP:fdef19ec-0d82-4ef5-9522-01c05cf49f31?_branch_match_id=922094833261166892) and was designed to give pique the interest of the viewers and catch their attention with its very simple yet effective design.

        Lastly, the sizes of the images were adjusted to ensure balance with the other elements.

    -   #### d. Media (Recordings and video)

        The recordings were provided by the artist. These are gospels songs which reflect the kind of music she wants to do.

        On the other hand, the size music video in the My New Release of Home Page was adjusted to ensure balance with the other elements.
        
        Users has the option to click the play button of the audio and video element should they want to view the video.

-   ### 3. Wireframes

    #### a. Desktop

    -   [Home](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/desktop-home.png)
    -   [Bio](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/desktop-bio.png)
    -   [Contact](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/desktop-contact.png)

    #### b. Tablet

    -   [Home](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/tablet-home.png)
    -   [Bio](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/tablet-bio.png)
    -   [Contact](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/tablet-contact.png)

    #### c. Mobile
    
    -   [Home](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/mobile-home.png)
    -   [Bio](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/mobile-bio.png)
    -   [Contact](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/blob/master/assets/wireframes/mobile-contact.png)

- ## B. Features

- ### Across all Pages

    -   The site has a responsive design on all devices. 

- #### Header

    -   The header is fixed at the top. This is accomplished using bootstrap’s sticky-top class.
    -   The artist’s name is placed on the top left corner of the page. The name shrinks on mobile device to avoid overcrowding of the area and give a breathing space.
    -   The navigation bar’s links are visible and turns white when hovered over to give feedback to user.  On tablet and mobile view, the links will collapse to a toggle button for better user experience. An opaque overlay was added to the collapsed menu to give give distinction to its content against the header and collapses back to a toggle button once user clicked the preferred page.

- ### Footer

    -   The footer sits after the content of the last section at the bottom of all pages , and includes a simple modal with the user’s email address and a subscribe button for newsletter for user's to get latest updates about the artist
    -   It also contains icons for the artist’s social media links for fans to see their social media following. Artist's social media links are not yet linked but the icons open to a new window when clicked. 
    -   The footer will collapse into two sections in mobile view- modal atop social's link and will sit next to each other on tablet view.

- ### Home Page

    -   The hero image is responsive to all devices.
    -   The Home page has a section for the artist’s album and tracks, on which user can play and listen to them if they wish to Also the title of the song becomes bold when hovered on.
    -   It also contains the section of My New Release, where the artist’s most recent music video can be found. The users can have the option to click the play button if they want to watch clip to minimise distractions when viewing the page.
    -   The Upcoming Events section has an inherit effect from bootstrap on which when an event is hovered on, the entire row is highlighted.

- ### Bio Page

    -   This page displays the artist’s several photos using carousel effect which will allow users to view the artist’s images in a more fun way that will keep then engaged as it is interactive.

- ### Contact Page

    -   This page contains a modal for inquiries and bookings so that users can get in touch with the artist management. It was designed simple and very straightforward.

- ## C. Future Features

    -   I would like to add a feature to the upcoming events on which user can buy tickets through the website.   
    -   I would like to add a merchandise page on which user can buy memorabilia and album.   
    -   I would like my “Subscribe to my Newsletter” and “For Booking/ Inquiries” modal to be fully functional as it requires Backend Developement.   
    -   I would like to improve the music playlist using Javascript as it very dull and unenticing.   
    -   I would like to add more photos, videos and music content in the future and have a dedicated Page for each.   
    -   I would like amend the design and layout depending on the reception and feedback of users.   

- ## D. Technologies Used

    - ### 1. Languages Used

        -   [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)  
        -   [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets)  

    - ### 2. Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

    1. [Bootstrap:](https://getbootstrap.com/)
        - Bootstrap was used to assist with the responsiveness and styling of the website.
    1. [Google Fonts:](https://fonts.google.com/)
        - Google fonts were used to import the **Poppins** and **Roboto** font into the style.css file which is used on all pages throughout the project.
    1. [Font Awesome:](https://fontawesome.com/)
        - Font Awesome was used on all pages throughout the website to add icons for aesthetic and UX purposes.
    1. [jQuery:](https://jquery.com/)
        - jQuery came with Bootstrap to make the navbar responsive but was also used for the smooth scroll function in JavaScript.
    1. [Git:](https://git-scm.com/)
        - Git was used for version control by utilizing the Gitpod terminal to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.
    1. [GitHub:](https://github.com/)
        - GitHub is used to store the projects code after being pushed from Git.
    1. [Adobe Spark:](https://spark.adobe.com/sp/design/post/urn:aaid:sc:AP:fdef19ec-0d82-4ef5-9522-01c05cf49f31?_branch_match_id=922094833261166892)
        - Photoshop was used to create the logo, resizing images and editing photos for the website.
    1. [Balsamiq:](https://balsamiq.com/)
        - Balsamiq was used to create the [wireframes](https://github.com/michaelangelopineda/milestones1-singer-ritajessa/tree/master/assets/wireframes) during the design process.
